[SINGING]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
Hello, and welcome to another episode.
No such thing as a fish, a weekly podcast this week coming
to you from the comedia in BAS.
[APPLAUSE]
My name is Dan Schreiber.
I'm sitting here with Anich Zinski, Andrew Hunter Murray,
and James Harkin.
And once again, we have gathered around the microphones
with our four favorite facts from the last seven days.
And in a particular order, here we go,
starting with you, James Harkin.
OK, my fat this week is that it's easier to speak Dutch
if you're drunk.
As in, if you're a non-native speaker--
Yeah, if you're Dutch--
you tend not to have too many problems in general if you're Dutch.
And you can't be absolutely hammered.
You have to be very slightly one pint kind of drunk.
And this is a study that's been done recently.
They got 50 native German speakers
to talk to a Dutch person in Dutch.
And then they recorded it, and they asked some Dutch people
afterwards, how did they do?
And the drunk people did a little bit better.
But unfortunately, I did read on Reddit.
Someone posted on Reddit that Dutch is basically
like a German got drunk and can't speak properly anymore.
So there's a lot of slurred sounds in this fleshlier leshler.
I didn't know you speak.
And you're not even drinking.
Does anyone hear speak Dutch?
Wow.
No.
Have another drink, and then see.
Because I wonder if it's slightly by accident
that when you're drunk, you're just a bit more confident.
And you're saying work-- because they've
had words that are actually quite similar to English.
So the word for "apple" is "apple."
The word for "pair" is "pair."
Wait, someone does speak it down there.
Who's saying it?
Or you've gotten what I'm doing now.
He just owns a green grosses in Antwerp.
I think that person has just understood
the admittedly complex joke that you're doing right now.
But yeah, it wasn't so much remembering the words
as much as they had better fluency and better pronunciation.
That's what people said.
And weirdly, the people themselves
didn't think that they were doing any better.
You would think, if you're drunk, you have a bit more
bravado, but they didn't really have that.
The people themselves thought, oh, I'm doing OK.
Well, actually, the Dutch people-- that's amazing.
But Dutch people are so English proficient.
About 90% of people in the Netherlands speak really good English.
So it's quite hard to get conversational with people in Dutch.
I went there earlier this year.
And as soon as you open your mouth and try to say, hello,
or something, you know, Apple.
Yeah.
You spotted a mile off and they immediately say, oh,
hello, how are you doing?
What would you like?
You want an apple?
Do you want a pink lady or a russet?
And it's very hard to--
But actually, this study was--
it was German-speaking Dutch.
But actually, there was a 1972 study
in which showed that Americans could speak
tie a bit better if they were a bit drunk.
Really?
Yeah.
I speak Mandarin much better when I'm drunk.
And I do speak Mandarin.
I grew up in Hong Kong.
And yeah, I do notice that when I'm drunk, I'm just--
I'm awesome at it.
There's no anecdote with that.
I just want to sort of big up my language-speaking abilities.
Has anyone else ever noticed that about you?
Or is it just that you think they--
No, I just tell it to people who don't speak Mandarin.
I'm like, whoa, I am kicking ass right now in my Mandarin.
But I can know-- because I was really bad as a kid.
I was the only kid in my year that when I went back to school
I had forgotten his name in Chinese.
Oh, God.
So I sat--
Is it your name in Chinese Dandab?
Oh, yeah, no.
That was my nickname at school.
This is so bad.
I was called-- some of my names Dan.
Obviously, I was called Dan Dan at school.
And I thought that was a really cool nickname,
because everyone knew my nickname.
And I was like, wow, that's so cool.
And they'd be like, older kids.
Hey, Dan Dan.
And I only found out.
It was about six years ago.
I was living in England.
I was in my late 20s.
And someone on-- I put on Facebook saying,
Dan Dan just won a game against an old Hong Kong friend
and someone wrote, ah, Dan Dan, you know that means
testicles in Chinese, right?
And I had no idea.
No one told me.
I wrote to my friends at school, my old school friends.
I was like, did you know I was called balls this whole time?
And they were like, yeah, did you not know?
It's a whole childhood.
I thought I was cool.
I was just a boy called balls.
And a boy called balls who forgot his name every holidays.
Yeah.
And genuinely, I would sit in class.
And I would be sweating, because they
be doing the roll call.
And I'd just go, I have no idea what my name is.
And when it gets to it.
And then there was one time that I thought my name was Shia Boa,
but I thought it was Law Boa, which is Radish.
So then I just got called Radish Balls or something, I guess, right?
So it's hard.
So I'm very proud when I get drunk and remember my Mandarin.
I think you remember your name.
I'm always impressed by that.
But getting drunk can't improve your skills in various ways,
can't it?
So the Snooker player, Bill Verbeniuk, how do you say that?
Oh, Verbenek.
Verbenek Verbeniuk, like who's counting?
He used to get--
That's not for me.
[LAUGHTER]
He used to get really drunk.
So he used to have six to eight points before a match.
And then he would have one during each frame during the match.
And that made him play better.
And everyone does always think that they play a bit better
after a few points.
After a few, maybe, but not after, how many did you say?
Six to eight, before a game.
And not during the game.
How many frames are there?
I'm assuming there must be only about three.
Well, in the World Championship final,
which he never reached, I don't think.
I think there's like 34 or something, 37.
I can't see why he never reached that stage.
But also, the world anti-doping agency
bans alcohol from just five sports.
So bans evening from five sports--
A motor racing.
A motor racing is one of them.
Yes.
So motor racing powerboating, air sports, auto racing--
motorcycle racing.
So you can see why it bans drinking in those.
It's a bit dangerous.
And archery.
And actually, the reason it bans archery
is that there was a study done in 1985
that found that drinking a little bit
makes you slightly better at archery.
And it's considered cheating.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
That's why that strong bowl guy is so good, isn't it?
[LAUGHTER]
So in 2008, the Dutch voted the word of the year.
Now, all countries do this.
All lot countries do this every year.
But in 2008, the word of the year in Dutch was swafflin.
OK.
And according to Wikipedia, swafflin
means to hit one's penis often repeatedly
against an object.
[LAUGHTER]
Didn't they start doing that?
There was a trend for swafflin in the Netherlands, I think.
There was.
In April, they started in April 2008,
when a Dutch student committed the act on the Taj Mahal.
That was it.
Now that.
I mean, that's not cool, is it?
I don't know.
But I don't think it is.
[LAUGHTER]
I've never known what's cool, but given a list,
that'll be low down it.
They've got-- the words in Dutch are so amazing.
And they do-- similar to German, which
has a lot of these compound words.
You know, we just strap words together like a glove
as a hand shoo, which I think is cool.
So Porcini mushrooms, and I'm going to mispronounce this,
are ikhuren-yis-brut, which literally means little squirrel's
bread, which is sweet.
Peanut butter is pindercas, or peanut cheese.
Slightly less appealing.
And oh, see, if you can guess this is a mule pier, a mouth pair.
Do you mean pear as a two or two thing?
No, I mean, pear is in Dan's pier, pier.
It's a slap in the face.
A slap in the face.
Yeah, as it was for you guys just now,
when you realize what I meant.
You know the little squirrel bread thing, though.
So I think that's pronounced acorn.
And it's good that I mean Dutch speaks in the audience,
so you can't correct me, but which is very confusing
apparently, because it's pronounced the same as acorn.
So the word for squirrel in Dutch is pronounced the same as
the word for acorn in English, yeah.
That must be hard for cannibal squirrels.
Well, they don't get cool, I suppose,
because they just say I'm going out to eat an acorn.
And then they may go, yeah, fair enough.
And then they eat their brother.
I found a way that it's finished, but this
is just a great description of a word that means a line.
It's a finished word about being drunk.
Kalsa, you chunit.
That is the feeling when you're going to get drunk home alone
in your underwear with no intention of going out.
Wow.
So you just go, I'm just going to have a culturally on it tonight,
guys.
Yeah, it does make it sound like a choice, which is nice.
[LAUGHTER]
True.
Did you know-- I mean, this is so off topic,
but I read a study this week that said that.
If you refer to yourself in the third person,
it is a great way to de-stress.
So if you're stressed out, instead of going, oh, my God,
I'm really, really scared about this.
Show I've got to do tonight in Bath, where I haven't done any prep for it.
Then--
All you need to do is--
For instance.
Like, random example.
All you need to do is you step back and you go,
Anna's really worried about a show she has to do to--
sorry, James is really worried about a show she has to do tonight in Bath.
And if you talk to yourself in the third person, it de-stresses you.
And it genuinely works.
I do that quite a lot.
You do.
I've heard you do it.
Yeah.
You always go, oh, James.
Yeah, but you sound very stressed when you're doing it.
You always say, oh, James, you idiot.
That's what I do, you know.
James is going to lock you in the cupboard.
It's-- I'll be honest, it's pretty messed up.
[LAUGHTER]
I'm not stressed, though.
Right, no, you're not.
James isn't stressed.
That's what you say.
I'll say what I want.
[LAUGHTER]
Daniel is scared.
So here's the thing about the Dutch language.
Yeah.
There was a guy called Johannes Garopius Becanus.
And he thought that Dutch was the original language in the whole world.
OK.
And his logic behind this was that the word Adam
sounds a bit like the Dutch word's heart dam, which means dam and hate.
OK.
And Eve sounds a bit like you that, meaning the eternal barrel.
And he thought that these two names were originally Dutch.
And therefore, Dutch was the language of the Garden of Eden.
And therefore, Dutch is the original word.
And then everyone just kind of stole words from them.
Well, that is a desperate man.
He has too much time in his hands.
He also thought that Antwerp was founded by Noah's kids after the big flood.
They decided to go to this place, which is basically below sea level.
[LAUGHTER]
But on Noah's Ark, there would have been some ants.
So maybe they said, oh, we'll name the city after whatever gets off first.
And then the ants got off first?
Sure.
I mean, I sounded unreaching here as well.
I read a great fact about Adam and Eve the other day,
which is that they weren't really humans,
because they were prototype humans.
So they were actually Garden vegetables, both of them.
So if you look at old drawings of them,
they're like a groove in Guardians of the Galaxy,
like tree-like characters.
Can I just take you back to the beginning of this bit of yours,
where you said, I read a great fact.
Yeah.
But no, no, it's like it's a fact that someone and myself believe that that is.
And so check this out as well, because they were root vegetables.
And they were like, woo, they didn't have sex with each other.
But they had to procreate.
And secret societies are looking for what is known
as a lost word, because it's a lost word.
And they're searching for it because it's said to be so powerful
that if said to the face of a woman, it would instantly impregnate her.
That was the worst minute of my life.
My God.
So I was reading some real facts about language learning.
No, the economists did this thing where they went and searched
for the hardest language to learn.
And it's really interesting.
It tells you loads of cool stuff about various languages.
But they concluded that the hardest language to learn is this language called
Tuyuka, which is spoken in the Eastern Amazon, I think.
And the hard thing about that, which I think would be a particular problem for us
and for you, is that the verb endings on statements require you to show
how you know something.
So if you state a fact, in the verb ending,
you have to say how you've known it.
So the way the verb is a rending for, according to secret societies.
I think they'll add that when there's no Tuyuka for citation needed.
Doesn't, they don't need it.
That's so cool.
Yeah, so like the phrase for the boy played soccer,
I know because I saw him play soccer,
is the played would be a different word to the boy played soccer.
I know because I read about it in a book or on Wikipedia,
or from a mad person on the street.
All right, it is time for fact number two, and that is my fact.
Oh, God.
Yeah.
And the word fact is brought to you very loosely today.
So my fact is that American president Calvin Coolidge
used to ride a robot horse inside the White House three times every day.
It's not extraordinary.
And how did you learn this?
I was talking to a root vegetable who...
So Calvin Coolidge, 30th president of the United States of America,
rode horses.
There's a surprising amount of presidents who ride horses,
but Calvin Coolidge was allergic to horses.
So he was built this mechanical horse that sat inside the White House,
and he thought it was a joke that it was being given to him,
but he tried it out and he really loved it.
And it had two different options of it.
One was gallop and one was canter,
and he used to dress up as a cowboy every time he got on to it.
Sometimes just the hat and totally naked.
No.
Yeah, yeah, he liked being naked a lot, Calvin Coolidge.
And get this, check this out, chew on this, Murray.
The...
The horse was invented by John Kellogg,
who invented Kellogg's cornflakes.
Yeah, he was outside of Kellogg's cornflakes.
He invented a lot of things, the mechanical horse.
He invented this really cool thing for if you're getting too hot in bed.
It was a tent, just for your head,
that led to a sort of tent pipe that went outside your window.
So it just...
And you can see pictures of it online.
Yeah, you know how like those sometimes windows just have a fan
that like sends out that little...
Yeah, it was exactly like that.
And so you see pictures of people laying in bed,
which is a tent door open, so they haven't zipped up.
And just getting cooled by that idea.
He invented the mechanical horse, as you say.
He also invented a mechanical camel,
which was pretty much the same, actually.
He just had a hump.
He invented a kneading machine in which you would lie on it
and mallets would pummel your bladder and intestines.
Wow.
And a colonic machine for animals.
And they would fire gallons of water up your rectum.
-Gallons. -Gallons.
You can lift off.
No, no.
Followed by eight ounces of yoghurt.
Afterwards.
That's quite a lot of yoghurt as well.
Sure, it's not gallons.
No, no, no.
And I've seen a picture of it,
and they have multiple kind of bits coming out,
so it was for more than one person at once.
No.
Yeah.
So you know how you don't like to sit even with us on a train, Andy?
Yes.
Yeah.
Imagine if we had to hang out while we were all having eight gallon
of animals.
My imagination was shut down.
But horse machines were quite a big deal,
because horse riding everyone did it before the motor car.
So there were lots of horse riding exercise machines.
And then when bikes came along in the 19th century,
then cycling machines became a big thing.
And I found an article on Timeline,
which is a really great website, by the way.
And it's from a magazine called The Rambler in 1897.
And it's this description of something
that had been invented, which was a stationary bike.
So it's a bicycle that has all the delights of outdoor cycling
enjoyed at home.
And it was invented by a painter.
And what he'd done is he'd painted an enormous roll
of outdoor scenery.
And he'd rigged it up to his cycling machine.
And he's attached the canvas to rollers.
And as he cycled, the scenery rushes past him.
That's amazing.
Wow.
It looks like we're outside.
Because you can buy cycling machines now,
where you can see on a video like the Tour de France
or whatever you're going.
So this is basically that.
This is that.
That's very cool.
I found a really similar thing.
OK, so I think the treadmill, one of its first uses,
was four horses.
I think they were four horses to exercise before they
were for people to exercise.
Really?
Yeah.
So Case in Point, the queen, last year,
bought a treadmill for all the queen's horses,
but not all the queen's men.
She's got a treadmill that 18 horses can walk or run
on at the same time.
And I think the big question is, could they
put a Humpty together again?
But there were theatrical shows in London
where they would have live horses on stage in theaters,
in Jury Lane.
So they would have a massive stage, obviously.
And then they did a huge spectacular show in 1902, which
was, I think it was Ben Hur.
Ben Hur, it was a biblical epic.
And they had a massive treadmill.
And they had about a dozen horses on stage
running, galloping on a treadmill.
Wow.
Yeah, while they wound a massive panorama beside,
like a chariot race.
Wow.
Very cool.
Yeah, that's insane.
That is really good.
The exercise horse, since we're in Bath,
I should say that the exercise horse is mentioned
in Jane Austen.
Yeah, is it?
Yeah, sure is.
It's in Sanditon, the novel that she didn't finish.
But yeah, she mentioned the exercise horse.
And basically, in her day, what it was was a chair, which
had a lot of the springs on it.
And so you bounced up and down on it.
I could trampoline.
I was a trampoline chair.
I found out a couple of facts about Calvin Coolidge.
Oh, yeah.
So he was famously a very quiet man.
And he became even quieter.
And I have one anecdote about him here.
So this is during the presidential campaign in 1924.
He was found out by a reporter who said to him,
Mr. President, what do you think of prohibition?
Coolidge said, no comment.
Will you say something about unemployment?
No.
The reporter pressed on.
He said, will you tell us your views about the world's
situation?
No.
About your message to Congress?
And the reporter just started to leave.
And then Coolidge said, wait.
And the man turns around.
And Coolidge says, don't quote me.
That's good.
Apparently, he would always--
he wouldn't let his children eat dinner
unless they were in full tuxedo.
What?
Yeah, apparently.
And one night, his son came home a little bit late.
He'd been out playing.
And he was a little bit late for dinner.
And he said, oh, what do I really need to dress up?
Can I not just go and eat dinner in this?
And they said, young man, tonight,
you are having dinner with the president.
We've mentioned him.
Haven't we a few times on the podcast?
He used to like to play little pranks.
So he used to do a thing where when he was in the Oval Office,
he used to press an emergency buzzer that meant the secret service
would rush in, because there was an emergency.
But he would press it and quickly hide underneath the desk.
And they'd come in looking for the president.
And he'd be, oh, Jesus, he's gone.
Well, he loves to sleep.
So maybe he was just taking a nap.
One other famous thing about him was
that he slept 11 hours a night.
And then he took frequent naps and long naps during the day.
And this is the thing people knew about him.
So he said nothing.
And also he was unconscious most of the time.
And one of my favorite people ever at Dorothy Parker,
the excellent witty literary figure of his time,
said when she heard about his death when someone told her he had died,
she just said, how could they tell?
That's what he was famous for.
When he was awake, he was a bastard.
I have to say this.
When he went fishing, he went fishing a lot when he was awake.
And he insisted that his secret service men bait his hook for him.
OK.
Fine.
I mean, it's a bit hoity-toity, but whatever.
But then, as the secret service guys were baiting the hook,
he would jerk the fishing rod and try and spear them
in the finger with the hook.
And he really told people how much fun it is to do.
It does sound like fun.
Do you think, like, when it's how long ago was Coolidge?
100 years or so?
20s, yeah.
Just that.
So, like, now we kind of hear all the fun stories of the things
that he did.
Do you think we'll hear fun stories in 100 years' time
about the current president?
We're hearing them now, right?
It's quite sweet his relationship with his wife,
who was famously a really outgoing, gregarious person,
just called Grace.
And so, he was the absolute opposite of her.
And the way they met was when she was reading law,
and she saw him shaving in his house.
So, he was in his bathroom having a shave,
and his window was facing out into the street.
And he was wearing just his underwear
with his suspenders around his waist, you know,
like braces, not female suspenders.
Suspenders around his waist.
And he was wearing a baller hat.
And so, she saw him and laughed, as he would.
And he looked round out of his window,
and he saw her tiptoes hat and went back to shaving.
And that was a sort of relationship.
Cheers, mate. Yeah.
I was looking at other historical ways of exercising
and losing weight. Yeah.
And I found one online called the Hallelujah Diet.
And apparently, for the Hallelujah Diet,
you have to ask yourself, what would Jesus eat?
Ooh. Okay.
And so, the idea behind this is that Jesus,
if he was around now, would probably be a vegetarian,
probably wouldn't drink, you know,
he'd have quite a good diet.
And they stress on the website.
It's not about saying what people actually
eat in the time of Jesus, because according to them,
they obviously didn't have a great diet,
as Jesus was constantly healing the sick.
[LAUGHTER]
You know that Jesus has a house waiting for him,
if he does come back in Bedford.
[LAUGHTER]
So, the garden of Eden is said to be in Bedford.
Well, it's not Eden again, dude.
This is by a thing called the Panacea Society.
And they believed that the garden of Eden was in Bedford.
And so, they set up the society to make sure,
because if Jesus came back for some reason,
he would go back to Bedford.
And they bought a house for him, which was a sort of semi-detached, I think.
Not even a detached house. Maybe it was a detached house.
No, it's actually not. It's a semi-detached.
Humble son of a carpenter wouldn't live in a detached house, would he?
I've seen this place, and it's an enterist in Venice, but it's a town.
Right, okay, yeah.
I would say that semi-detached and enterist.
Oh, yeah, okay.
But I also think that's why he's not coming back.
He keeps on going, "What kind of property have you got lined up for me?"
That it's still the old terraced house in Bedford.
I'll stay out here for a little while.
But yeah, I think they rented out to families.
But if he does come back, I think there's a policy that he--
[LAUGHTER]
I don't know if they know that, but I assume.
Imagine the family receiving the phone call.
Hello? Yeah, Mrs. Sanderson.
You are not going to believe this, but it's hard to believe
that Jesus would turf out a family from their house.
When he turned out the Pharisees from the temple, he was a turner outer.
Anyway, we need to move on, guys.
All right, it is time for fact number three, and that is Chisinski.
My fact this week is that a member of Iceland's pirate party just injured her eye
and had to appear on TV wearing an eye patch.
This is the nicest of all pirate-related stories,
because it would be harrowing to her.
She'd lost her lower leg and had to have a peg leg.
That's true.
It would have been awkward if you guys had laughed at that.
But fortunately, it's just a kind of innocuous injury.
Her one-year-old child scratched her in the eye.
So she had an injured eye.
She wore an eye patch in this debate.
And she clarified that it was not an old-sea injury,
because the Icelandic pirate party are not about old-sea pirates.
They're about more modern stuff.
They're quite popular, aren't they?
Yeah, they are popular.
There was a time a couple of years ago where they were the most popular party in Iceland, I think.
And now they're the third biggest.
I think in the last elections, they might have got about 14 percent.
Yeah, yeah.
But yeah, Icelandic elections, they're really into them.
So the last election was last year.
The government keeps collapsing.
It's like saying that we're really into referendums.
It's not that they have a lot.
It's just that they like them when they happen.
So in 2016, the turnout was 76 percent,
which is the lowest turnout ever at a Icelandic election.
Which is quite impressive.
And that was despite 10 percent of the country in Iceland
was away watching the Euros in the last election, I think.
When it happened.
Yes, so I was reading an AMA on Reddit by the pirate party.
And they were asked about piracy.
And basically their idea is they think that everyone should be allowed to do whatever they want
on the internet, like just copy whatever they want and all that kind of thing.
And they don't think there should be copyright rules.
And they were asked on this Reddit AMA
whether they think they'd be actually able to do anything
because other countries like the US or the UK have their copyright rules.
And surely Iceland wouldn't be able to do anything about that.
And they admitted, yeah, okay, maybe we won't be able to do anything about it.
They said, "No country is an island in a globalized world, not even Iceland,
which really is an island."
[LAUGHTER]
I was confused about this fact when I read it,
because I thought, oh, that's so ironic when I read it.
And then so a member of Iceland's pirate party.
Yeah, and then I thought, hang on, is it ironic?
And I couldn't work it out, and I was too embarrassed to ask anyone.
So I googled if it was ironic.
And I found a website, which if anyone else suffers from not knowing if things are ironic,
you can now go to isironic.com.
And it's just that they're going, no, no.
And then Dan and Lannis Morosette constantly submitting requests.
Yeah.
Lannis is resubmitting, saying, isn't it, though?
Yeah, so it's just lists of things where people are going,
is this or is this not ironic, just a couple?
And I put your fact up as well to see.
And it's got 50/50 at the moment.
So the people vote on it.
Yeah, people vote on it.
So Katniss from the Hunger Games is injured by getting burnt after becoming dubbed
"The Girl on Fire" is an ironic, 75%.
Say it is not ironic, yes.
Torched tower in Dubai caught fire.
I think all of these things are ironic.
But there are different meanings of ironic.
Guns won't be allowed.
Come on, there's situational irony, there's dramatic irony, there's also.
Oh, also.
Go on, give us another one.
Guns won't be allowed at Trump's NRA speech.
That is ironic.
Yes, 63% agree with you.
The people are with me, guys.
That's not ironic.
That's a sensible precaution.
Just on Iceland quickly, Iceland has so many, as you say,
scandals, political scandals.
So the last prime minister had to resign because he was caught up in the panorama papers,
which meant he'd basically been hiding an enormous amount of money offshore,
which you'd think the pirate party would be a fond of, but...
They weren't happy.
But basically, when that came out, when that story broke,
the number of people who protested was nearly 10% of the entire population
as 10% of the entire country in basically one square.
Wow.
Was it the same 10% who went to the euro?
I think it must have been, yeah.
They just love to travel.
Yeah.
It's big pirate news this week, I think, or certainly in the last two weeks.
The pirate party just came third in the Czech elections,
and they got their most votes that any pirate party has ever got in any election.
So it's big news that they've been on party for less than 10 years,
so they're doing really well.
And as part of the campaign, they kick-started a solar-powered pirate boat
to do all the campaigning,
despite the fact that the Czech Republic is unlocked.
Is that ironic, Anna?
It's funny.
I'll take it.
In Taiwan, the pirate party wasn't allowed, I think.
So in 2012, there was an application to name a political party, the pirate party,
and it was rejected by the Ministry of Interior
due to bad connotations because pirates aren't known as good people.
Well, there's a lot of pirates in the straits around Indonesia and Singapore itself.
Yeah, and so the Ministry of Interior said that we think they might be confusion,
and people might think that you are real pirates, so they were told not to do it.
But do you guys know, so you know the pirate accent?
R.
R. Yes.
Thanks, I don't know what's up with these guys.
Do you know what that comes from?
R.
Somerset, everyone went from Somerset and Devon and ran away to see...
That's exactly what it is, not what it is.
It was popularized in the 1950s by a guy called Robert Guy Newton,
who was a Hollywood actor at the time,
and he was the person who was in Pirates of Pensanth, I think,
and he played Pirates in a few films, and he was from Devon,
and he just decided, "I'll just really up my Devon accent."
And so he did that being a pirate, and then people decided that was what Pirates sounded like,
so that's where it comes from.
That'd be a damn lie.
But actually Pirates, they came from all over the place, didn't they?
And apparently, I read an article that says, "The most number came from London."
So really, the more correct pirate accent would be kind of a cockney-ish accent
with a load of bows and these and...
Was that what Johnny Depp has in?
What does he have?
It's a Keith Richards accent. Is that a cockney?
Yeah, I think so.
That's good.
It's kind of an extremely accurate movie.
I met the lady who does the costumes for Pirates of the Caribbean last year,
and she says they always bring some wire wool to make all of the costumes old,
'cause you can't buy old clothes.
Well, you can.
You can buy old clothes?
Wow, James, that is a very elitist thing to think.
Wow! I mean, have you seen what I'm wearing?
I obviously don't believe it.
Yeah, no, but as in 17th century kind of well-worn...
Those are mostly run-out in the shops now.
I'll try and do that.
To be their most charity shops do not have a long 17th century line.
Yeah, someone's grandpa's grandpa's grandpa's grandpa's grandpa died,
and this is in their attic.
So, can you think of a pirate who went to Eaton?
Not a true question.
Oh, gosh.
I'll tell you.
So, Teddy, Captain Hook.
Did he?
Captain Hook?
He's an old-atonian.
Why?
Because you really?
Yeah, in the first ever play of Peter Pan is made very clear that he's...
We went to Eaton.
That's what...
So, that's what James Barry says.
Yes, what James Barry says.
In the original play...
What?
..in the actual play of Peter Pan.
Captain Hook's final words are floriat itona, which is the school motto.
So, there was a letter to the Times in the 1930s, and it said, "Sir, I see that the term pirate
is being applied to the class of person who owns a wireless set without paying for a license.
Is this not a misnomer of a two-flattering nature?
Unlawful though it might be piracy, has at least the merit of some romance, and hasn't
the past call forth qualities of courage and even courtesy.
The person, especially in these hard times, who listens without paying for a license, displays
none of the daredevil virtues of a pirate.
He is a sneaker.
And the term wireless sneaker would be more appropriate."
As the pain signed, James Hook, Eaton College.
And last year, the largest salmon caught in Iceland was called by Eric Clapton.
Ah! Sorry, I knew we were way off the Iceland thing, I know, but I just had to mention that.
Hang on, the Eric Clapton.
The Eric Clapton.
I'm sorry to say, but I actually called the lake that happened at, and it turns out that
it was the biggest salmon at the specific lake, but not for all of Iceland.
You'd have thought that them would be the arbiter of what was true and tells you.
How do you phone a lake?
I think I'm one of those novelty-shell phones.
That is great fact-checking, that was pretty impative fact-checking.
That's the most fact-checking I've ever had in my life.
All right, we need to move on to our final fact of the show, and that is Andy.
My fact is, that the man who invented email later changed career to become a sheepseeman
importer.
Sorry.
Which of those two things has taken off?
Yeah, who is this?
He was called Ray Tomlinson, and he's the man who invented email.
I mean, he later became a miniature sheep breeder, but that involved the importation of a lot
of sheep's.
Yeah, he wasn't just randomly imparting it just for...
Sorry, when you say a miniature sheep breeder, was he very small?
No, he was massive.
He was massive?
He was just a human.
He was a normal man, but he was a great man because he invented email.
And he is the guy who picked the @ sign for the email address, and it was very, very clever,
because it basically meant you could send an email to any computer, and it was outside a
network, basically.
We know where email is, mate.
Well, but this is before the World Wide Web, isn't it?
Yeah, exactly.
You've got, yeah, you don't have a way of doing it, and it's very weird because, until he
invented email, basically, the previous means of doing it was you had to leave a message
on the same computer, and then someone else had to log in to see what the message was.
And that was email before him, which is not a convenient thing, obviously.
So you would write the email on your computer, mail your computer to the person.
Yeah, Amazon, I would like to buy a pair of your socks, and then you'd have to send a
computer, yeah.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah.
Do you know how Brian Bleserd tweets?
Very loudly.
He has his tweets, faxed to him, and then he receives his tweets by fax.
He reads through them, he calls his agent, he answers it over the phone, and his agent takes
a note of it, and then types out all the tweets at the end of the day to send back it out.
So the art symbol seems to be the thing that Ray Thomson gets asked about the most, right?
And I think it's weird that we don't have a name for the art symbol, and it's really, we
call it the Amphora, but no, well we all call it the Amphora.
We call it the Amphora.
Yeah.
Show of hands.
Who calls it the Amphora?
I've never seen fewer hands go off in a room.
But you can get me on podcast AmphoraQI.com, that's what I would say, but no, all of the
countries call it something interesting.
So I think in, is it in Spain, or is it, it's a Chocuola, which is a little snail, in Russia,
it's the word for dog, in Norway, it's called the Sign of the Meow, which maybe is to do with
a tail.
It looks like a cat curled up with its tail.
It looks like a cat curled up.
So the, at the moment, the movement of Seaman, the important export in the UK, is sorted
out by the EU, by the Belide Directive.
Oh, imagine sorting that out.
Oh, no, I mean, I just mean the rules, yeah, the rules.
For listeners at home, Daniel's doing some really gross mimeing.
But I don't think anyone's talking about how this is going to affect it after Brexit.
Are they?
I'm not.
But this is really important, because you need to import Seaman from different countries,
otherwise all of your livestock is in bread.
Yeah.
Because like, for instance, in America, they're importing a lot of bee semen at the moment.
Because they sell bee semen, yeah.
So their bees are really struggling, they're all dying, and they need a new bit of genetic
material.
And so they get the bee semen in from other countries, and then they inseminate them into
the bees.
But it's quite difficult if you get it through customs, because they don't often see
bee semen coming through.
You're looking at me like I'm making this up.
I didn't know bees had semen.
They do.
So each male produces one micro-liter.
To put that into some kind of perspective, a single drop of water is 100 micro-litres.
So you need 100 bees to produce enough semen to be like the one drop of water.
What's the purpose of that?
That fact.
No, what's the purpose of getting the 100 bees together?
And...
Oh, yeah.
That's...
Imagine being invited to that party.
What?
As a bee.
I want to know how they collect it, because the ways of collecting semen as a farmer
are...
They're quite interesting.
There's one guy, basically.
One man.
With tiny fingers.
Is it?
Is it Donald Trump?
No.
It's Michael Wait, 53, from Scotland.
Okay.
He's one of the few beekeepers who is inseminating queen bees by milking the bees.
I've seen footage of it.
You just have to squeeze the abdomen very gently.
Oh, wow.
It comes out.
Because in...
So in farming of larger animals, then they have dummies, don't they?
So they have dummies of use.
So, for instance, bullsemen, it fertilises 75% of the cows in this country, I think, because
it's just much easier.
It's more convenient.
You mean it imported semen?
What?
What fertilises the other 25% of cows?
There's a special word that you say.
Sorry, imported bullsemen, imported bullsemen that comes in vials, fertilises dairy cows,
but you need to be able to collect it.
And so you sell dummies, and you can look up dummies online, and you can buy dummies
south, for instance, that you can get pigs to mount because you need pig semen to be
imported as well.
And it's really hard to collect because you have to get literally in there, so you've
got the dummy sow, but you have to swoop in there the last minute with your cup to collect
it.
And that's why it's much more convenient to use a dummy because with an actual sow, it moves
around the pen quite a lot, and so you have to chase it around, whereas with the dummy
it stays still, at least.
But this is how a lot of farm animals are inseminated.
Yeah.
There is another method which is that some males then mount other males, and the other males
are called teasers, okay, and then they're interrupted at the last minute by a man with
a rubber tube.
Oh my god, who volunteers for that job?
I don't think it's paid.
Guys, we need to wrap up at a sec, have you got anything before we do?
I have something on sheep breeding.
Alexander Graham Bell was into sheep breeding.
He noticed that some sheep had more nipples than others, and he tried to systematically breed
sheep with each other to get more nipple sheep, and he wrote a paper in science in 1904 called
the multi-nipple sheep of Ben Bray, okay, and he managed to eventually, they don't talk
about this when they're talking about the phone, do they?
He eventually yielded five and six nipple sheep, and he thought that if they have more nipples,
they'd be more fertile, but he was wrong about that.
They just had more nipples.
Everyone knows the first phone conversation, don't they, you know, "Doctor Watson, come
here, I want you," but no one recorded what came next, which is, "I want you to read this
paper I've done about nipples on sheep."
All right, should we wrap up, guys?
Okay, that is it, that is all of our facts, thank you so much for listening.
If you would like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we have said
over the course of this podcast, we can be found on our Twitter accounts.
I'm on @Sriberland, Andy.
I'm Fora.
Andrew Hunter M.
James.
That's James Harkin.
And Shazansky.
You can email podcast@kywai.com.
Yeah, or you can go to our group account, which is @nosuchthing, or you can go to
our website.
Nosuchthing is a fish.com.
We have all of our previous episodes up there.
We also have a link to our new book, The Book of the Year, which is being released November
the 2nd.
It's out, in fact, what by the time you're listening to this.
And we're about to give on away to one of the members of the audience, because we asked
them to send in a fact at the beginning of the show, and Andy, you've picked a winning
fact?
Yes, this fact comes from Karris Rubinzer.
I hope I pronounced your name right, and it's that the inventor of the bra had a pet
whip it named Cliteris.
And just one last thing before we wrap up, this is such a cool venue.
We're so proud to have come up here to play it.
We've heard so much about it from our friends who have been here as well, and it has lived
up to what they said.
And you'll notice that on your seats, you would have been given this thing, which is
to save baths from being boring, the committee is looking for crowdfunding to make sure that
it can be secured as a community-led place.
So please, if you can, go to this crowdfunder page, help it out, because I, you know, it's
my first time to bath, but I do know from doing comedy that venues like this do get shut down,
and they're really important, and they're so good, and that's how comedy in this country,
and it's the best country in the world for comedy still exists.
So please go to this and help them out.
We'll be back again next week with another episode, guys.
Thank you so much for being here tonight.
We'll be out at the back, signing books, and so on.
We'll see you then.
Goodbye.
[Applause]
[Music]